







In the District Court of the Third Judicial District of Washington Territory, Holding
Terms nat Seattle, in the County of Kings -

In the matter of the Petition of Fannie Fowle for Release on a writ of Habeas Corpus
directed against Geo J. Finleson } order Petition

To the Honorable the Judge of the said above court, the Honorable Roger S. Greene:

Your petitioner  Fannie Fowle by her Atty  J.H. Lewis a resident of the City of Seattle
in the County of King; Makes complaint to your Honor and says:

I. That she is unlawfully restrained of her liberty against her will and without her
consent by one Geo J. Finleyson a citizen of the British Dominion and a subject of
said Dominion. That she is in the City of Seattle in the County of King and within
the jurisdiction of this Honorable Court; that she is so restrained unlawfully of
her liberty by the party as aforesaid at the City of Seattle in the County of King
on a Street of said City known as Third Street between what is known as Columbia and
Madison Street, just one door from the said Columbia Street next to the certain hotel
known as the Columbia House in the said City of Seattle.

II. That the cause or pretense of the unlegal restraint of this petitioner is unknown
to this petitioner, but to the rest of this petitioners belief from no other cause
other than unkindness and willful desire to make a slave of this petitioner, respondent
herein named informing this petitioner that she was his slave and that she should
not and depart from him and from his control,: That this petitioner has often and
frequent made attempts to get away. And the said respondent would catch this petitioner
and force her to return to him and severely beat and wound her for so attempting to
gain her freedom:

III. That the illegallity of the unlawful restraint of this petitioner consists in
depriving this petitioner of her liberty withut any cause assigned or any reason therefor,
and in the further depriving this petitioner of her liberty notwithstanding that she
has often requested be released: the respondent herein having no contract whatever
whereby he holds or controls this petitioner lawfully.

Wherefore petitioner prays that this Honorable Court will immediately issue a writ
of Habeas Corpus directed to the said respondent requiring the said respondent to
produce the body of this petitioner before your Honor that you honor may R inquire
whereof she be so unlawfully restrained.

And this petitioner will eoer pray etc.

Jas H Lewis
Atty for petitioner




