







Territory of Washington
County of Walla Walla SS

The District Court
1st Judicial District
At Chambers before Hon
J. K. Kennedy Judge
Habeas Corpus

Charles Gahres &amp; Martha J. Gahres Plffs
vs
Isabella Sutton &amp; W. H. Barrett Defts
answer

Defts for answer to the complaint herein filed and return to the writ in said cause
issued says that they have the child in said writ described now in court.

1 Defts say as they are informed and believe that said Plffs are not the parents of
said Etta Dora Cravens and

2 deny that said Plffs are the lawful guardians of said minor etta Dora Cravens.

3 Defts deny that



they or either of them wrongfully or unlawfully detain or restrain said Etta Dora
Cravens of her liberty at the court of Wallula County of WallaWalla Territory of Washington
or elsewhere

4 Defendants aver that said minor child has been in the posession of said defendants
for about three years and now that the said child has been sickly that said defendants
have been at great expense and trouble in the rearing so far of said child that they
have taken great care pain and trouble with said child and have watched over the same
and have become greatly attached thereto

5 That the mother of said child Martha J Cravens had no home and no 



means of procuring one and did not posess the ability to take care of and provide
for said child and expressing great hate and disgust for the father of said child
and desinnes of removing from her gaze. the child that would constantly remind her
of one so hateful to her and also expressing hate for the child besought these defts
to take and rear said Etta Dora Cravens promising and agreeing to leave said child
in the quiet possession of these Defts if they would agree so to do. Defts aver that
they did on the day of August  AD 1868 take said child from its mother Martha J Cravens
under said arrangement and have kept and provided for the same ever since defts aver
that the disposition manifested toward



said child by its mother aforesaid renders her an improper person to have control
of said child

6 Defts aver that said Plffs are residents of the state of Oregon and have it in contemplation
and threaten to take the said minor child Etta Dora Cravens out of and beyond the
jurisdiction of this court

7 Defts aver that they are  proper persons to have the care control and custody of
said child that they have no children of their own that they are willing able and
anxious to keep and take care of rear and educate said child

Wherefore Defts ask that said petition of Plffs be dismissed and the



prayer thereof be denied and that said child be remanded to the custody of these Defts
and for costs

W. A. George &amp; N. T. Catin attys for defts




