







Territory of Washington
County of Walla Walla

In the District Court of the first Judicial District Before Hon. J R Kennedy Judge
sitting at  Chambers

Charles Gahres &amp; Martha J. Gahres, Guardians of Etty Dora Cravens a minor Plffs
vs.
Isabella Sutton and W. H. Barrett Defts

Charles Gahres and Martha J. Gahres (formally Martha J. Cravens) the above  and hereinafter
styled plffs for complaint against Isabella Sutton and Richard W. H. Barrett the above
and hereinafter styled defts allege

1st That they Plffs are the legal parents and maternal and lawful guardians of Etty
Dora Cravens a minor child of the age of five years that said child is the child of
one of the Plffs Martha J. Gahres by a former marriage with one Wm A. Cravens



that in June 1869 said marriage was dissolved and said child granted  afterwords at
a term of the Circuit Court of the 5th Judicial District of Oregon on  
that since the dissolution of said marriage with said Cravens the said Plffs (to wit
Martha J. Gahres) has intermarried with the other Plff herein and they Plffs are now
an aforesaid the guardians of said minor child and entitled to the sole custody of
said child.

2nd That the said minor child of those Plffs to wit said Etty Dora Cravens is wrongfully
and unlawfully detained and restrained of her liberty by the said Defendants Isabella
Sutton and Richard W. H. Barrett at the town of Wallula in the said County of Walla
Walla and Territory of Washington

3rd That the course of said restraint of said minor child by said Defts is according
to the best knowledge and belief of these plffs an arbitrary determination on the
part of Defts to keep said child without any claiming right whatever to the custody
thereof


4th That said retraints and detention of said minor child is illegal and that the
illegality thereof consists in the withholding the custody of said child from these
Plffs who are the lawful guardians of said minor and as such entitled thereto

Wherefore Plffs or guardians of said minor pray that a writ of Habeas Corpus be issue
directed to said Isabella Sutton and Richard W.H. Barrett commanding them to have
the body of said minor child Etty Dora Cravens before the Honorable Judge of the Court
at a time and place to be specified by said Judge and then and there to do and receive
what shall then and there be considered by said Honorable Judge concerning said minor
child together with the terms and course of her detention and said writ and that said
minor child may be restored to the custody of these plffs 



and for costs of said

Charles Gahres
Martha J. Gahres
Plaintiffs




