







Territory of Washington
Walla Walla County

In District Court for the First Judicial District of Washington Territory Before the
Hon J.R. Lewis Judge At Chambers 

Charles Gahres &amp; Martha J Gahres Guardian of Ella Dora Cravens, a Minor- Plaintiffs
vs
W.H. Barret and Isabella Barret - Defendants

Plaintiffs complaining of Defendants for cause of action alleges: 
1. That the above named Plaintiff Martha J Gahres (formally Martha J Carvens) is the
mother of the said minor child Ella Dora Cravens by a previous marriage with one W.H.
Cravens and that she is the natural and lawful guardian of the said minor child and
entitled to the custody and control of the same 
2. That the said Martha J. Ghares formally Martha J. Cravens as aforesaid. Attained
a Judgement of divorce from  her former husband 



W. H. Cravens at a tern of the circuit court of the State of Oregon on the County
of Union begun and held on the first day of November AD 1866 in which this the said
court further ordered and decreed that the said Martha J Gahres then Martha J Cravens
had the custody and education of the girl Ella Dora Cravens 
3. That with said Divorce such the members thereby and the said Ella Dora Cravens
were within the Jurisdiction of the said court. 
4. That since the said decree of divorce the Plaintiffs herein have been lawfully
married and are now living together as husband and wife
5. That Plaintiffs have ample means for the Education of the said Ella Dora Cravens
and that the Plaintiff Martha J Gahres the mother of the said minor child has ample
means for that purpose in her own wealth
6. That the said Ella Dora Cravens is now seven years of age and  in the Plaintiff
the Education



has been wholly neglected.
7. That the said Ella Dora Cravens is wrongfully and unlawfully withheld from the
custody of Plaintiff at Walluda in the County of Walla Walla and Teritory of Washington
by Defendants W.H. Barret and Isabella Barret.
8. That the cause of the said alleged restraint and detention of the said minor child
is the best of the knowledge and belief of Plaintiff is an alleged gift of the said
Ella Dora Cravens to Defendants Isabella Barret by the said Martha J Cravens now Martha
J Gahres before the decree of divorce aforesaid from her former husband W.H. Cravens
and this the illegality of the said restraint and detention  in   said alleged  gift
without foundation and  a fiction of defendants. 

Therefore Plaintiffs pray then a Writ of Habeas Corpus may issue directed  to the
Defendants W.H. Barret and Isabella


Barret commanding them to have the body of the said Ella Dora Cravens before the Hon
Judge of this court at a time and place designated by said judge and then and there
and  what the said Hon Judge shall consider in the  premises concerning said minor
child and that the  cause why the said  minor child is withheld from the care and
custody of Plaintiff and for Costs in this proceeding.
J. H. Lassater and T.J. Auden Attorneys for Plaintiffs 



