







Puget Sound Dispatch
Beriah Brown  Editor
Seattle, W.T., June 10, 1875.

Opinion of Judge Lewis on Indian Testimony

Ex parte.
Mathews, Lewis, Wright. } Petiton for a writ of habeas corpus.
At Chambers, Seattle, June 3, 1875.

The Petitioners were committed by a Justice of the Peace, in default of bail in the
sum of one thousand dollars each, charged with murder in the second degree.

The only evidence against them before the committing magistrate was given by witnesses
who are Indians, and Petitioners claim that Indians are not competent witnesses in
criminal prosecutions, wherein a white man is defendant.

Counsel for petitioners has most earnestly and candidly argued the point and I have
given it careful consideration. In support of his views he cites secs. 139 and 231
of the criminal practice act of 1873.

It is provided by section 231 that : " Witnesses competent to testify in civil cases
shall be competent in criminal prosecutions. * * * That Indians shall be competent
witnesses as herinbefore provided, or in any prosections in which an Indian may be
a defendant - Criminal Code of 1873, Sec. 231.

By the provisions of Sec. 139 of the criminal code of 1873, it is provided that in
prosecutions for selling liquors to Indians an Indian is a competent witness.

These sections - 139 and 231 - correspond with and are identical with sections 133
and 226 of the criminal code of 1869.

In order therefore, to determine who are competent in criminal cases, we must necessarily
ascertain who are competent in civil cases, for it is declared that those who are
competent in civil cases are competent in criminal prosecutions.

Referring then to section 381 of the civil practice act of 1873, it is declared, that

" Every person of sound mind, suitable age and discretion, except as hereinafter provided,
may be a witness in any action or proceeding;" and it is further enacted by section
384 "That the following persons shall not be competent to testify, to wit:

1. Those who are of unsound mind or intoxicated * * *

2. Children under ten years of age * * *

For the purposes of this case, these are the only exceptios nstated in the statute.

Counsel insists that inasmuch as by the latter clause of Sec. 231, Cr. Practice act,
it is therein declared that an Indian is a competent witness against an Indian that
the maxim " Expressio unius  est exclusio alterius " is applicable, and it follows
that an Indian is not competent in cases wherein a white man is defendant.

The rule is Elementary that in the construction of a statute, the intention of the
lawgiver is to be deduced from a view of the whole and of every part taken and compared
together * * * * * and if the words are not explicit, the intention is to be collected
from the context, from the occasion and necessity of the law, from the mischief felt
and the object and remedy in view. 1 Kent, 462. And it is so said by Lord Coke,

That " construction of a statute must be made, in the suppression of the mischief
and in advancement of the remedie." -- Coke upon Littleton, 381a.

If we concede that the words of the statute are not explicit, and examine the whole
statute in the light of the above rules, We shall easily reach a satisfactory conclusion.

It is a part of the fundamental law of the land as now declared by the Courts " that
all men are equal before the law, " and our law makers have within the last twenty
years made remarkable progress toward enabling the parties to get the whole of the
facts in a cause to the jury, leaving the jury, who are the sole judges of the facts,
to weigh the evidence.

Hence, the old rule, that a party in interest is excluded from testifying, has been
swept away, and the modern tendency of Legislation is to permit every person to testify,
leaving to the jury to determine as to the credibility of the witnesses.

This spirit of reform years ago reached the Halls of our Legislature.

An examination of the Statute of 1863. 

section 1911. For the purpose of adapting this idea to the laws of the Territory,
our legislature of 1873, struck from the excepted classe of section 384 of the law
of 1869. Indians, and under the wise provisions of the Statutes of 1873, an Indian
may testify in all civil and criminal actions, unless debarred by the provisions of
sections 139 and 231. These sections in so far as they relate to Indians, must be
taken for naught. The provisions therein contained were necessary so long as the Indian
was prohibited generally from testifying, and the fact thta they are there, is doubtless
an oversight by the Codifier.

Looking at the whole Statute there is no doubt that our Legislature intended to remedy
the mischievous provisions of our Statute making distinctions on account of race and
color, and make our laws accord with the laws of the United States, and with the civilization
of the age in which we live.

This view of the Statute is to my mind clear and I have no doubt but that an Indian
has the same right to testify in this Territory as a white man, and that the testimony
of all witnesses must now be weighed in the same balances, and its truth or falsity
be determine in accordance with the rules and principles of common sense and justice
instead of prejudice.

The application must be denied.

Joseph R. Lewis, Judge.




