







State of Missouri County of St. Louis } In Circuit Court Hm Judge Rombauer presiding

Petition for a writ of habeas corpus

Petitioner states by Wm Bush that on the 26th of December 1867 she Caroline Bauer
was arrested by a police officer (at the instigation of John Bauer her husband who
has for more than 4 months last past deserted her; ) and brought  to St. Vincent insane
asylum a private institution situated cnr 9th-Warien street in city of St. Louis

Petitioner by Wm Bush further states: that she Carolina Bauer is there now illegaly
restraint and confined against her will; petitioner by Wm Bush further states that
she Mrs. Bauer has about 6 children the youngest of which is about one year old from
which she has been forcibly separated and for which she has all ways properly provided.
Petitioner by Wm. Bush futher states that there is a divorce pending between her -
her husband; and that he has prevented two certificates from 2 persons purporting
to be doctors a true copy of which is here with filed pretending that she is a monomaniac,
which is the only authority by which sister Julia Superior of said asylum claims to
hold and confine her.

Petitioner by Wm Bush further states that said arrest was illegal and against the
statute law in such cases provided in that there has not been a judicial examination
in the probate or county court of St. Louis to inquire in her sanity -  or insanity
as is required by statute. Petitioner by Wm Bush therefore prays this honorable court
to grant a writ of Habeas Corpus to inquire her cause of confinement. Petitioner by
Wm Bush further states that there has not been made any application to any court or
officer superior



to the one now applied to; Petitioner by Wm Bush further states that said Mrs Bauer
is not insane which he is able to prove by witnesses in trial

Petitioner by Wm Bush therefore prays the court to liberate her from confinement if
facts appear as set forth in this petition and to make such further order as the Court
may deem proper

Caroline Bauer by Wm Bush her Atty

The above named  Wm Bush being duly sworn says that the facts stated in above petition
are true according to his best knowlege and belief
Wm Bush

Sworn to and subscribed before me Jany 2nd 68
J Lewis Clk




