







In the District Court, holding terms at Seattle in King County, Washington Territory.

In the matter of the application of Yu Gum and Yu Hung for a Writ of Habeas Corpus:
No

TERRITORY OF WASHINGTON )
County of King) ss

To the Honorable Roger S. Greene, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Washington
Territory and Judge of the above entitiled Court:

Your petitioners, Yu Gum and Yu Hung (Chinawomen) respectfully shows to your Honor.

I. That they and each of them are unlawfully imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained
of their liberty by one Charles Henry, Deputy U.S. Marshal of Washington Territory,
in the King County jail, at Seattle, King County, Washington Territory.

II. That the cause or pretense of said restraint, according to the best of the knowledge
and belief of your petitioners, is as follows, to wit: Your petitioners were charged,
before Hon Eben Smith, U.S. Commissioner, by one W.C. Ronald, of being unlawfully
within the United States, contrary to the provisions of an Act of the Congress of
the United States, commonly known as the Restriction Act, and upon a hearing before
said U.S. Commissioner he, the said Commissioner, decided that your petitioners were
unlawfully within the United States, and that they had come


thereto from the Province of British Columbia, and ordered that your petitioners be
taken back to said British Columbia, and committed your petitioners to the Custody
of said Charles Henry, to be deported, and your petitioners are now confined and restrained
of their liberty, by the said Charles Henry, as aforesaid.

III. That said restraint of your petitioners is illegal and the illegality thereof
consists in this to wit: That on the hearing before said Commisioner, no evidence
was adduced showing or tending to show that your petitioners, or either of them, are
unlawfully within in the United States, the only evidence adduced before said Commissioner
being, as follows: that your petitioners are females; that they came from Port Ludlow,
Washington Territory to Seattle, Washington Territory in male attire; and that your
petitioners had told Chinese interpreter that they came to said Port Ludlow from the
City of San Francisco, in the State of California in the United States, direct, without
making any stop at any place, save at the City of Port Townsend

Yet notwithstanding that the above was the only testimony addiced before said Commissioner,
he decided that your petitioners should be deported to British Columbia.

And your petitioners allege that they are not unlawfully within the United States,
but that they have resided therein for a long period of time, to wit: since the year
1876, and that they have not been out of the United States since said date; that your
petitioners are young girls of the age of 10


and 11 years respectively; that their relatives and friends reside in the United States
and your petitioners will be forever sepratedseparated from them, if deported to British
Columbia.

Wherefore, your petitioners pray that a Writ of Habeas Corpus may be granted, directed
to said Charles Henry, Deputy U.S. Marshal of Washington Territory, commanding him
to have the bodies of your petitioners before Your Honor, at a time and place therein
to be names, to do and receive what shall then and there be considered by your Honor,
at a time and place therein to be named, to do and receive what shall then and there
be considered by your Honor concerning them, together with the time and cause of 
their detention, and said writ; that your Honor will then investigate the charge against
your petitioners, and restore them to liberty

Yu Gum
her X mark
Yu Hung
her X mark

Witness Will Rasui
Louie King
Dated May 8th 1886.




