







"Exhibit A"

Copy of Writ of Deportation

In the District Court of the Third Judicial District of Washington Territory, holding
Terms at Seattle, for the County of King. W. T.

United States of America -vs- On Ding, Ah Sing, Ah Sam No.2, Ah Lam, Wa Kim, Lee Pin,
Gin Cheong, Wong Fong, Wong Boy, Ah Ching No. 1, Ah Ching No. 2, Han Goon, Ah Jin
No.1, Ah Jin No. 2, Ah Gong, Won Ga, and Suey Wee} Writ of Deportation

Now on this 12th day of June, 1889, William H White, United States Attorney being
present in Court, and the defendants being also present in Court person and accompanied
by their counsel J. A. Stratton, and it appearing to the Court by the statement of
facts now made in open court by said United States Attorney, that sufficient evidence
cannot be produced to justify a conviction of the defendants upon the charge in the
indictment against them; it is now by the Court on its own motion considered and adjudged
that said cause be and the same is hereby dismissed and the indictment herein be and
the same is hereby set aside and upon the evidence before the court, it is further
considered and adjudged by the court that the defendants are Chinese laboreres who
came into the United States from British Columbia in the Dominion of Canada, in violation
of law, and that they are not lawfully entitled to be or remain in the United States
and that



they be by the United States Marshal for Washington Territory deported from the United
States and returned to British Columbia, the Country from whence they come.

Now, therefore, this is to command you, the said United States Marshal, to take the
said defendants On Ding, Ah Sing, Ah Sam No. 2, Ah Sam, Wa Kim, Lee Pin, Gin Cheong,
Wong Fong, Wong Boy, Ah Ching No. 1, Ah Ching No. 2, Han Goon, Ah Gim No. 1, Ah Jim
No. 2, Ah Gong, Won Ga, and Sing Nee, into your custody and deal with him as herein
instructed todo: and these presents shall be your authority for the same, Herein fail
not.

Witness the Hon C. H. Hanford, Judge of the said District Court, and the seal thereof
this 13th day of June A.D. 1889

R. H. Hopkins, Clerk

District Court Seal




