




In the District Court holding terms at Seattle

In the matter of Ah Kam for a writ of Habeas Corpus for Nan Oy a Chinese woman in
the custody of the U.S. Marshal for Washington Territory} No 5843

The United States Marshall for Washington Territory having made return to the writ
of Habeas Corpus heretofor issued herein. Now on this 25th day of February A.D. 1888
came on to be heard the petition in said cause C.K. Janner Esq. appearing on behalf
of the Petition and W.H. White Esq. on behalf of the United States, as well as on
behalf of said US Marshal after the introduction of testimony and on the statement
of the Attorney for the petitioner and on the return of said U.S. Marshal the Court
finds as facts in this matter That said Nan Oy is a Chinese person and that she came
to the United States from the Province of British Columbia by water on or about the
day of February AD 1888 and that she had never theretofore been in the United States
and that she is not of the class of persons mentioned in Section 13 of an act of Congress



approved July 5th 1884. 23 statutes at Large page 118 and that said Nan Oy on coming
into the United States did not produce the certificate required by Section 6 of said
act of Congress and that she has no such certificate and that on coming into the United
States she was arrested by said U.S. Marshal by virtue of a warrant duly issued by
Oliver Wood US Commissioner for said Washington Territory on a complaint filed with
him charging her said Nan Oy with being unlawfully in the United States and that said
U.S. Marshal now has her in his custody by virtue of said arrest under said warrant
Now therefore in consideration of the law and the premises it is by the Court ordered
that the petition of said Ah Kam be and the same is denied and it is further ordered
that the US Marshal for Washington Territory forthwith deport and remove said Nan
Oy from the United States to British Colombia and she said Nan Oy is hereby remanded
into the custody of said US Marshal to carry this order into execution

RA Jones
Judge



