







In the District Court for the 3rd judicial district of Washington Territory holding
terms at Port Townsend, for the Counties of Jefferson, Clalum, Island, Whatcom and
San Juan

In the matter of the application of  Matthews Joseph Lewis and Thomas Wright for a
writ of Habeas Corpus

To the Hon J.R. Lewis Judge of the District Court for the 3rd judicial district of
Washington Territory the petition and complaint of  Matthews  Lewis and Thomas Wright
respectfully shows,

That they are each unlawfully imprisoned detained, confined, and restrained of their
liberty by J.J. H.VanBokkelen, Sheriff of Jefferson County Washington Territory, at
the jail of said county at Port Townsend.

That the cause or pretense of said restraint is, a commitment issued by Wm. H. Leamed,
a Justice of the Peace of said County of Jefferson issued to said Sheriff, commanding
him to commit said petitioners to said jail in default of bail in the sum of one thousand
dollars each, to await their trial at the next term of the District Court at Port
Townsend upon a charge of murder 



in the second degree, said alleged crime being charged as the killing of a Hydah Indian
named  on or about the 2nd day of May 1895. at Port Ludlow in said Jefferson County

That the illegality of said restraint consists in this, that there is no evidence
against your petitioners to warrant the accusation made against them.

Wherefore your petitioners pray that a writ of Habeas Corpus may be granted, directed
to said J.J. H. VanBokkelen commanding him to have the bodies of the said petitioners
to wit John Matthews, Joseph Lewis and Thomas Wright before your Honor at a time and
place therein specified to do and receive what shall then and there be considered
by your Honor concerning them and that said J.J. H VanBokkelen may then and there
be required to make return of said writ together with thetime when your petitioners
were placed in his custody and the cause of their detention, and that they may be
restored to their liberty.

Dated this 28th day of May 1875



C.M. Bradshaw
Attorney for petitioners




