







In the Probate Court of Whitman County Washington Territory before W. N. Ruby Probate
Judge

In the matter of Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin adopting Daisy Geneva Departte minor
child of James G. Departte and Elizabeth Departte

The petition of Amos Gustin &amp; Catherin Gustin this cause came on to be heard in open
court Held at Olympia in Whitman County Wash T on January 24th 1888 at the regular
term of said Court on the petition of Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin for leave to
adopt Daisy Geneva Departte a minor child  by birth and for change of name and it
appearing to the court after examing said petitioners on oath that said Amos Gustin
and Catherine Gustin were husband and wife and inhabitants of Washington Territory
and residing in Whitman County Wash Territory and desirous of adoption of said Daisy
Geneva Departte and it farther appearing that said Daisy Geneva Departte was a minor
child not three years of age  and had no legal guardian and had been abadoned by her
parents James Departte and Elizabeth Departte Thereupon the court appointed S. J.
Chadwick (a desent and suitable person) to act in the proceedings as the next friend
of said minor child and it farther appearing that the said S. J. Chadwick after an
examination of the proceedings and parties was satisfied to have said persons adopt
said child and had given his written consent to said adoption and it farther appearing
to the court upon



an examination of Catherine Gustin separate and appart from her husband Amos Gustin
that she of her own free will and  desired said adoption to adopt said Daisy Geneva
Departte and it further appearing that the said petitioners and the Court being fully
satisfied of the ability of the aforesaid petitioners to bring up and educate said
Daisy Geneva Departte properly and also of the fitness and propriety of such adoption

It is therefore ordered that from this date towit January 24th 1888 said minor child
Daisy Geneva Departte to all legal intents and purposes is the child of said petitioners
Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin and that the name of said child is hereby changed
from Daisy Geneva Departte to Daisy Geneva Gustin

Done in open Court January 24th A. D. 1888

W. N. Ruby

Probate Judge




