







In the District Court of the Territory of Washington and for the First Judicial District
thereof holding terms at Wall Walla W.T.

In the matter of the application of H.J. Mann in behalf of his infant daughter Bessie
Mann for a writ of habeas corpus }

To the Hon. William G. Langford Judge of said Court:

The petition of H.J. Mann respectfully shows:

That Bessie Mann a female child four years of age is wrongfully detained and restrained
of her liberty and from her home, and from the possession, care, custody and control
of her father H.J. Mann by Cynthia Mann contrary to her will and against the will
and without the consent of the said H.J. Mann

The cause or pretense of said restraint according to the best knowledge and belief
of applicant is that said Cynthia Mann is the mother of said Bessie Mann, and is living
separate and apart from her husband H.J.



Mann and claims the right to hold and keep said Bessie Mann in her possession to the
obtrusion of H.J. Mann

That said H.J. Mann and Cynthia Mann were joined in marriage in Morgan County in the
State of Indiana on the 22nd day of January 1875 and ever since have been and now
are husband and wife, and there are now living three children the issues of said naming
viz:  Mann, Willie Mann and Bessie and that ever since said hearing until about the
12th day of May 1887 the said H.J. Mann and Cynthia Mann lived and cohabitated together
as husband and wife.

That the said Cynthia Mann is not a fit or proper person to have the care custody
control and education of said Bessie Mann for the reason that said Cynthia Mann is
a lewd, unchased, unvirtuous, immoral and immodest woman

That in or about the first day of April 1885 the said Cynthia Mann while so being
the wife of the said H.J. Mann and so living and cohabitating with him, disregarding
the solemnity of her marriage vows and her duties 



as a wife and mother and without the knowledge consent or command of said H.J. Mann,
committed the act and crime of adultery with said G.A. Rhea at the residence of said
H.J. Mann and Cynthia Mann, about 21 miles west of the Town of Heppner in the County
of Morrow in the State of Oregon and that at various  times thereafter at the same
and other places the said Cynthia Mann did have criminal and adulterous intercourse
with said G.A. Rhea

That your petitioner becoming aware of the lewd, criminal, and adultrous conduct of
his said wife Cynthia Mann, and hoping to reclaim her there from, and to avoid further
disgrace upon herself and family, removed with his said wife and children to the State
of Indiana.

That a short time afterward and about the 12th day of May 1887 during his temporary
absence from home the said Cynthia Mann without the knowledge or consent of your petitioner
and against the will of their said children and in persuance of a previously made
private agreement and mutual understanding



between herself and the said G.A. Rhea the said Cynthia Mann took said children forcibly
and against their will away from their father and their house and carried them to
the City of St Paul in the State of Minnesota and then such according to and in persuance
of said agreement the said G.A. Rhea and there and then permitted the said G.A. Rhea
to have criminal and adulterous connection and intercourse with her and did then elope
with the said G.A. Rhea taking all of said children with her in the state of Oregon
and while journeying on the cars to said State of Oregon did permit the said G.A.
Rhea to occupy the same bed with her

That for the purpose of secreting said children from their father your petitioner,
the said Cynthia Mann took said children to The Dalles in the said State of Oregon
and then lived with said children for the purpose of secreting them as aforesaid and
was there supported and received support from said G.A. Rhea and that all money used
by said Cynthia Mann



for traveling and other expenses at and from the time she left the State of Indiana
as aforesaid was finished and sent to her and received by her from the said G.A. Rhea
in consideration of criminal and adulterous intercourse had and agreed to be had by
her with the said G.A. Rhea

That after spending much time  and money in search of said children, in or about the
5th day of June 1887 he found them at the City of The Dalles in the State of Oregon
and then and there took two of them by hand and Willie into his possession, and eversince
has had and now has them in his possession care and custody

That afterward and on or about the 6th day of June 1887, the said Cynthia Mann took
the said Bessie Mann and carried her into the Territory of Washington, and now has
said Bessie Mann in her possession in Walla Walla County in said Territory and utterly
refuses to deliver her to your petitioner her father, and to his house

That said Cynthia Mann is now and for several months last past has been



keeping house for several  men on the farm of C B Leplin in said Walla Walla County,
with any other women or woman in or about said premises and as your petitioner believes,
is living in criminal and adulterous intercourse with various men whose names are
unknown to your petitioner

That your petitioner is a man of sober  and industrious habits is able, willing and
in every way competent to have the care and custody of said Bessie Mann and that the
interests of said Bessie Mann and the community at large demand that said Bessie Mann
be taken from the possession of said Cynthia Mann and away from her lewd immoral and
licitations influence and placed in the security of and rised up with her said brother
and sister under the  care of a kind and virtuous parent

That your petitioner believes that said Cynthia Mann will carry said Bessie Mann out
of the jurisdiction of this court before compliance with



with a writ of Habeas Corpus can be enforced

Wherefore your petitioner prays that a warrant may issue to bring said Bessie Mann
before said Judge to be dealt with according to law

Edgar Leurman atty for H.J. Mann




