







Gahres
v
Barett

Habeas Corpus:

The complaint herein 1 alleges that: Plaintiff is mother of a minor child by former
huband and is the natural and lawful Guardian therof and entitled to the custody of
said child.

2 That she obtained a decree of divorce in the circuit court of Oregon from her former
husband in 1869. Whereby the custody of the child was awarded her. 

3 That the child is within the jurisdiction of this court 

4 That since decree she was lawfully  with Gahres 

5 That she and her husband have ample means of supporting  and schooling the child


6 That she is in custody of defendants and that her education is neglected and that
Defendants wrongfully retain custody of said child. 



the defendant in obedience of the writ issued correct with court with the child who
is of the age of 7 yrs. and pleads that this matter is readjudicated — issue is taken
tressure and it appears from the screening of this court setting of Chambers That.

June 30 1871 Plffs filed in this court a petition against defats for a writ for the
child in question. seeking out

1 That they are legal parents and named guardians of child in question. 

2 That in 1869 the marriage was dissolved and child given to Pltt by the Circuit Court
of Oregon and that since divorce Plff has submitted

3 That the child is unlawfully detained by defendants and that Plaitiffs are entiltled
to the custody of 



the child.

The answer made issue as to these to allegations and preseeding others.

The cause was heard before the Judge of this court who remandered the child to the
custody of Defendants.

I filed the transcript of decree of divorce on the files as Evidence on the trial
of this cause.

Looking at the whole record I am satisfied that the same issues are presented to this
court.  That were presented and determined before his Honor Judge Bruredy . Are of
which the pressureupon. and while the Judges may from time to time be  this court
is at all times the source. 

In the case of the Teritory this Matter decided at December term 1873 the supreme
court says

It were better



that we follow the settled adjudications of the court whatever charges be made in
the members thereof

Were

In order to settle a matter rejudicated there must be a concurrence of four conditions
to wit
1 Identity in the  source for 
2 Identity of the cause of action 
3 Identity of persons and parties 
4 Identity of the quality in the persons for or against where the claim is made. 

Bound for  rrs Jurisdiction But in the case of Habeas Corpus is this former order
adjudication a for to this proceeding

It is said in  on Habeaus Corpus That the only has no where been adjudged Res adjudicated
Exept for so long as the maternal excuses Sterias existing of the home of



the order remains unchanged

H.Corpus 463 

In the  is the people it was held. That an adjudication of a writ of record or of
an effect having authority to act in the matter. on the question of the custody of
one infant child. brought up on Habeas Corpus. May be pleaded res adjudication and
is evidence upon the same parties . in all future authorities restoring to the same
mother. and upon the same state of funds. 

25 March 63 Paige Section says in his opinion in that case 

The former preceedings were a for to any remanderings how of any matter which occured
before his first order of a first adjudication on Habeas Corpus or nober the  writ
be able such  controversies may endure until the enters 



or the death of the parties. Under further continuance impracticable and his  favore
writ of liberty will will become an enquire of oppression 
25 March of page 99

This case was decided by the court of Eners  in 1840. in 1842 the case as was again
before Supreme Court. in the case issued by counsel. in 3 All 399 and the court further
as they are bound to the decision in 25 meredery holding judgement on Habeas Corpus
a  as to funds existing on the  of the judgement. 

In the case in 25 March of page 94 the  Chancellor  says

The proceeding on Habeas Corpus principle of res adjudication is applicable to proceedings
on Habeas Corpus and that it now make no difference 



in the application that the whether the writ was returnable before a court or Judge.
for in neither case ought the party to be prosecuted to proceed  adjudication before
the same court or officer. to  the former decision while the  remained the same.

A different view of the law is taken in 2  429. holding the doctrine such applicable
on habeas corpus

but the court in that case say on page 430.

"How for judges will go in that execution after a case has once been determined is
a question which must rest in that over forms judgment

I am endured to think that that vote the recurse reasonable and at all made. I think
the result would be evil. Were I to reverse a decision made by a former Judge of this
court which is clearly res adjudication.



if new facts or issues are prescribed the case is exactly the same in all aspects.

I am of opinion also that on Habeas Corpus in a case with the facts as in this case
of law  The judge can only determine who is legally entitled to the custody of this
child

That is on wherin thus the law. bestowed the child

True as counsel say where a court renders a decree of divorce that court may force
time to time change its   as the facts may  but no such charge has been made in fact
as the child is without the jurisdiction of the Oregon Courts. it is   any order of
that court would be of any validity but it is not now necessary to determine the



I am of opinion also that this court has no original jurisdiction in matters of guardianship.
that is conferred on the court of Probate which has ample power to appoint and remove
guardians for any and all minors within the Territory on a proper case made and from
such orders are opposed to this court. 

Truothly

617 of our statute declares that no ward or Judge shall require with the legality
any judgement or process whereby a party is in custody upon any process issued on
any prior judgement of a court of lawprotent jurisdiction 

and  628 applies this provision to suits relative to minors

We have seen that the judge in Habeas Corpus has the process of a court

Wherefore looking 



at the whole case I am of opinion that the judgement of his Honor Judge Kennedy awarding
the child to the defendants is a for to this proceeding 

The plea is therefore sufficient and the writ will be dismissed

Swers page 

Gahres 
vs 
Barrett  

Opinion 

Filed Sept 2d 1873
WJ Andrews
Clerk 




