







In the District Court, holding terms at Seattle in King County, Washington Territory.

In the matter of the application of Elnora Cline by B.M. Cline, her father for a writ
of Habeas Corpus} No. 5349. Return to writ

To the Honorable Richard A. Jones, Judge of said Court:

The Respondent, Ella Cline, for a return to the writ served on her in this proceeding,
respectfully shows to your Honor:

I.
This respondent denies that the said Elnora Cline is by her restrained of her liberty
or that the said Elnora Cline is restrained of her liberty at all.

II.
This Respondent denies each and every allegation contained in the third paragraph
petition of the petitioner herein, except that she left her home in Sidney, Kitsap
County, on or about the 15th day of April, A.D. 1887 and came to Seattle for the purpose
of procuring medical attendance and that she has remained in said Seattle ever since,
and except that she has said Elnora Cline in her custody and insists upon retaining
her therein.

III.
And this respondent further avers that she is legally and rightfully entitled to the
custody of said Elnora Cline; that she is the mother of said Elnora Cline, and as
such mother she claims that she has the right to the custody and possession of said
child. That said Elnora Cline is a sick and an infant of tender years, to wit: of
the age of



four years, and is now in delicate health, and is of a frail constitution, and constantly
requires a mother’s attention and constant care and nursing, and said child is liable
to sicken and die if taken from this Respondent, its mother and placed in the care
of strangers. That she said Elnora Cline is the only child of this respondent, and
this respondent is deeply attached to her, as is also said child to this respondent.
That this respondent has and can procure the means to properly support, maintain and
educate said child, and can and will do so. That said child has not been placed under
any restraint, illegal or  otherwise by this respondent or any other person, and the
said father has ever been and now is at perfect liberty to visit said child and to
exercise all his parental rights over the same, this respondent only requiring that
said child be allowed to live with her and that she be allowed to care for and protect
her And this respondent further avers that she has not deserted or abandoned her said
husband, nor has she without cause refused to live with him. That for more than one
year last past, this respondent has been in delicate health from female troubles and
has sought medical advice from her attending physician, Dr….. Baker of the City of
Seattle, by whom she was advised that it was absolutely necessary in order to preserve
her life and health that she refrain absolutely from cohabitation with her said husband,
and for the purpose of being treated for her said sickness and following the advice



of her said physician, she came to Seattle to live, bringing her said child with her,
all of which was done with the knowledge and by the consent of her said husband. That
when this respondent left her said home, she then intended and she now intends to
return to her said home, as soon as her health will permit, provided her said husband
desires and will allow her so to do, but her said husband has since she has come to
Seattle stated to this respondent that he did not desire to and would not live with
her again and that he intended to get a divorce from her, and has endeavored by threats
to induce her to give up her said child, Elnora Cline, and on one occasion forcibly
and vioentlyviolently took said child from her possession and attempted to abscond
with he and was only prevented from so doing by the interposition of the officers
of the law.

That this respondent by reason of her being the mother of said child and from the
fact of its tender years,  and delicate health is better fitted and qualified to have
the custody of said child than any other person. And your respondent avers that by
reason of this foregoing facts stated in this return, she is legally and rightfully
entitled to the custody of said child, Elnora Cline, nevertheless, she here produces
the body of said Elnora Cline, before the Court, in obdienceobedience to the writ
issued herein, and prays that this Honorable Court will remand said child to her custody.

Lewis &amp; Gilman
Attorney for Respondent.

Ella Cline
Respondent.




