







Ter of Washington
Walla Walla County
In District Court for the First Judicial District of Washington Ter. Before the Hon.
J. R. Lewis Judge At chambers

Charles Gahres &amp; Martha J Gahres Guardians of Etta Dora Cravens, a minor Plffts
vs.
W. H. Barret and Isabella Baret Defts

Plaintiffs complaining of Defendants for cause of action allege:

1 That the above named Plaintiff, Martha J. Gahres (formaly Martha J. Cravens) is
the mother of the said minor child, Etta Dora Cravens by a former marriage with one
W.H. Cravens and that she is the natural and lawful guardian of the said minor child,
and entitled to the custody and control of the same

2 That the said Martha J. Ghares formally Martha J. Cravens as aforesaid retained
a judgement of service from her former husband W.H. Cravens of a regular term of the
circuit court of the state of Oregon for the county of Union 



began and held on the first day of November AD 1869 in which suit the said Court Justice
ordered and decreed that the said Martha J. Gahres then Martha J. Cravens have the
custody and education of the said Etta Dora Cravens.

3 That at said Divorce suit the parties  and the said Etta Dora Cravens was within
the jurisdiction of the said court. 

4 That since the said decree of divorce the Plaintiffs herein have lawfully married
and are now living together as husband and wife.

5 That plaintiffs have ample means for the education of the said Etta Dora Cravens
and that the Plaintiff Martha J. Gahres the mother of the said minor child, has ample
means for that purpose in her own right.

6 That the said Etta Dora Cravens is now seven years of age and that as the plaintiff
her education has been wholly neglected

7 That the said Etta Dora Cravens is wrongfully and unlawfully withheld from the custody
of Plaintiff, at Wallula in the County of Walla Walla and Territory



of Washington by Defendants, WH Barret &amp; Isabella Barret.

8 What the course of the said illegal restraint and detention of the said minor child,
to the best of their knowledge and belief of Plaintiffs is an alleged gift of the
said Etta Dora Cravens to defendants, Isabella Barret by the said Martha J Cravens,
now Martha J. Gahres, before the decree of divorce aforesaid from her former husband
W. H. Cravens and that the illegality of the said restraint &amp; detention considering
this that the said alleged gift is totally without foundation and purely a fiction
of Defendants.

Therefore Plaintiffs pray that a writ of Habeas Corpus may issue directed to the Defendants
W.H. Barret &amp; Isabella Barret commanding them to have the body of the said Etta Dora
Cravens before the Hon. Judge of this Court, at a time and place designated by said
Judge and then and there to do as  what the said Hon. Judge shall consider in the
premise concerning said minor child and that they show cause why the said minor child
is witheld from the care and custody of Plaintiff and for costs in this proceeding.



J.H. Lasater &amp; T.J Audens, Atty for Pltffs




