







Territory of Washington
County of Jefferson } Ss.

In the matter of the application of John Cain John Brown Victor Vaneck &amp; Jose Carma
for a writ of Habeas Corpus } Petition for Writ

To the Hon. Orange Jacobs, Chief Justice of the Territory of Washington and Judge
of the 3rd Judicial District therein:

The Petition of John Cain John Brown Victor Vaneck and Jose Carma respectfully shows:
that they are unlawfully imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained of their liberty
by J.J.H. Van Bokkelen Sheriff of said Jefferson Co and Depty U.S. Marshal at the
Jail in Port Townsend in the said county of Jefferson Territory of Washington

That the said imprisonment, detention, confinement and restraint are illegal; and
that the illigality thereof consists in this, to wit:

The said John Cain, John Brown, Victor Vaneck and Jose Carma were and are imprisoned,
detained, confined and restrained of their liberty by a commitment issued by a Justice
of the Peace for having deserted from the Nicaraguan Ship Halcon, without any application
having been made to said Justice of the Peace for that purpose



by a consul or vice-consul or any other officer of the Nicaraguan Government; and
without any treaty existing between the United States and said Nicaraguan Government
for stipulating for the restoration of Seamen deserting; and without observing any
of the requirements of law, or any of the requirements of law being observed, as prescribed
in the act of Congress passed March 2nd 1829 Sec 1; (Also 1st Brightly page 610. Sec.
41.)

But said Justice of the Peace, in total disregard and defyance of said Act and every
requirement thereof, and of all law, purposely and arbitrarily and unlawfully usurped
the right, and prostituted the power of his office, to subserve the master of said
Nicaraguan Ship, and caused the said John Cain, John Brown, Victor Vaneck &amp; Jose Carma
to be arrested and taken by force, to wit: by the arrived Revenue Cutter "Oliver Walcott"
from the  American Barkentine Freamont in which they had shipped on a certain voiage
and were, when arrested, outward bound and brought before him, the said Justice, upon
said charge of desertion and were by him tried and condemned to be returned on board
of said Nicaraguan Ship. by said Marshal whenever the Master of said ship shall



so order, and to remain for that purpose in the custody of said Marshal.

Wherefore, your petitioners pray that a writ of Habeas Corpus may be granted, directed
to the said J.J. H. Van Bokkelen Sheriff &amp; Depty U.S. Marshal commanding him to have
the bodies of John Cain John Brown, Victor Vaneck &amp; Jose Carma before your Honor,
at a time and place therein to be specified, to do and receive what shall then and
there be considered by your Honor, concerning them together with the time and cause
of their detention, and said writ; and that they may be restored to their liberty.

Dated Feb. 13. 1875

John Cain
John Brown
Victor Vaneck
Jose Carma his X mark




