







In the probate Court of Whitman County Washington Territory. Before WN Ruby Probate
Judge

In the matter of Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin adopting Daisy Geneva Departte minor
child of James G. Departte and Elizabeth Departte

Comes now James G. Departte and Elizabeth Departte and for answer and defence  to
the petition of Amos Gustin and Catherin Gustin in the above entitled cause:

Allege that they have no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief as to
whether or not Amos Gustin and Catherin Gustin or either of them are inhabitants of
Washington Territory or residents of the City of Colfax Whitman County Washington
Territory and therefore deny the same

Allege that they have no knowledge or information suffficient to form a belief as
to whether or not said Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin have two hundred acres of
land in Nez Perce County Idaho Territory or anywhere worth three thousand dollars
or any sum or that they have personal property worth two thousand dollars or any sum,
or that they



or each ask leave to adopt Daisy Geneva Departte

Denys that on July 1st 1885 or at any time said Amos Gustin and Catherine Gustin or
either of them requested James G. Departte  and Elizabeth Departte or either of them
to take said Daisy Geneva Departte in their custody and or support or maintain her.

Deny that they or either of them refused to take said child or refused to support
her, or in anywise provide for her.

Deny that they then or there or at any time abandoned said child, and deny that they
or either of them ever refused to pay for the support of said child. Deny that said
Elizabeth Departte is partially or at all insane, or that she has  at any time in
the last two years been in the Insane Assylum as a patient for treatment for insanity

Deny that they or either of them are unfitt persons to have the care or custody of
said minor child Daisy Geneva Departte

And for a further and separate defined defendants complain and allege 



that on the 9th day of February 1885, at the birth of said Daisy Geneva Departte said
Elizabeth Departte became afllicted with a disease peculiar to women and became deranged
in mind and was sent to the asylum for insane in the State of Oregon for restraint
That she remained there for four months the greater part of such  time she stayed
in and about the hotels of the City of Salem in said state of Oregon, That at the
end of four months she returned to Nez Perce County Idaho right in mind, but much
afflicted in body. That she with her husband in upon of benefitting her health they
went to the Territory of Utah where she  refuged  for two years. when she returned
to said Nez Perce County Idaho much benefitted in health, During this time the said
Daisy Geneva Departte was left with the uncle of said Elizabeth Departte, Amos Gustin,
that nothing was said when the child was put there as to how long it was to stay but
it was mutually understood and agreed that the child was to remain only until such
time as said Elizabeth Departte should recover her health and be able to care for
and



control said child. that no money was left for the support of said  child for the
reason that said James G. Departte and Elizabeth Departte were poor people depending
upon their labor for support and all of their accomodations were spent in caring for
and curing said Elizabeth Departte of her disease aforesaid.

Defendants further allege that on the     day of January 1888 said Elizabeth Departte
went to the  ho residence of said Amos &amp; Catherine Gustin in the County of Nez Perce
and Territory of Idaho and demanded of the return to her of the persons possession
of said child, but said petitioners refused to deliver her up, that said Elizabeth
Departte  then went to her friends to consult with them as to the manner of proceeding
to obtain posession of said child, and while she was so consulting the petitioners
removed  went from the County of Nez Perce in the Territory of Idaho to the County
of Whitman in the Territory of Washington, and immediately began  proceedings  to
in this court to adopt said child 



and defendants aver upon their information and belief that said petitioners  named
in said County of Whitman for the express purpose and no other of  giving this court
adopting said child Daisy Geneva Departte, and that they with intend and will shortly
return to their home in the County of Nez Perce in the Territory of Idaho.

Wherefore defendants pray that the proceedings herein be dismissed

Wm. H. Fuman and Mark A. Fullerton
Attorneys for Defendants




