







vs.
Barett

Habeas Corpus.
Motion to .

On the motion of the writ in this case before the Judge the defendants interposed
his plea of former adjudications 

The plea was held good and the writ discharged

In taxing the cost the defendants included therein Attorneys for  $10.50

The plaintiff have filed his motion to stike this  from the bill

sec 459 provides "that case shall be allowed to the party in whose favor a judgment
is rendered excepting

sec  467 when allowed to either party, case to be called the Attorney for shall be
as follows. 

In all actions 



It would seem that it was intended by the Defendants that case should be allowed only
in actions but looking at sec 458-464-465 we may reach the conclusion that cases shall
be allowed to the party in whose favor a judgement is rendered and that the prevailing
party shall be allowed for all necessary disbursments including fees of officers,
witness fees

The disbursments shall be stated in detail verified by affidavit and filed.

Now it is clear that the Atty for is no part of these disbursments. for the statue
declares that these disbursments are to be allowed in addition to the allowance as
provided in sec 464.

There may be and is some question as to what was intended by the provisions 



of section 404. The words are "when allowed to either party" vs. the Attorney fee
in all actions shall be $5

If we  this to mean this to wit; where  are allowed to either party vs that sec 458
is of no effect because that section declares that costs shall be allowed to the party
in whose favor a judgement is rendered $5

Would it not be the more reasonable  to render the   this 

458 costs shall be allowed to the party in whose favor a judgement is rendered

464 and when attorneys fees are allowed to either party the fee shall be $5

465 and the prevailing party shall be allowed his necessary disbersments in addition
to this Attys fee these disbersments shall include the officers cost $5



This said of the law would leave it in the disorder of the court to allow Attys fee
or not in the obscure  of special evidence

But sec 477 mandates that in all actions and proceedings other than those mentioned
when no promise is made. Costs may be allowed or not and if allowed may be opporutioned
in the discretion of the court 

As a ground rule Court Attys fees are not part of the costs in any case.

It is only by reason of the statute that they are taxable in any case and hence a
party to be entitled thereto mostbeing himself within the provisions of such statute

I am of opinion that Sec 464 is applicable to the trial to have in open court. of
herein



and that by section 477 it is in the discretion of this court to allow or not allow
costs in all proceedings in  and in the exercise of this discretion. I am not of opinion
that this is such a proceeding as will warrant me in requiring the Plaintiff to pay
a counsel fee to the Defendant in addition to the other costs. 

the motion will be sustained 

JR Suirs 
Judge 




