







Territory of Washington County of Spokane S.S.

In the matter of the application of Mary E. Teller for a writ of Habeas Corpus:

To the Hon. George Turner Judge of the District Court of the 4th Judicial District
of Washington Territory

The petition of Mary E. Teller respectfully shows to your honor that she is unlawfully
imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained of her liberty by R D Raridon the sheriff
of Lincoln County in Washington Territory. That said sheriff petitions to hold your
petitioner in custody under and by virtue of a commitment issued by Hon John J Booge
a Justice of the hence matter and for said county of Spokane. Commanding said sherriff
to hold your petitioner in custody in dispute of her entering into bail in the sum
of 



five thousand dollars for her appearance at the next regular term of the District
Court to be held within and for said County of Spokane then and there to answer to
the charge of murder. Your petitioner further represents that she is not guilty of
said offense; and that the amount of bail required for her appearance to answer to
said charge is excessive.

Wherefore your petitioner prays that a writ of Habeas Corpus may be granted directive
to the said Judge Glispen commanding her to have the body of your petitioner before
your honor at a time and place therein to be specified, to do and receive what shall
then and there be considered by your Honor concerning her together with the time and
cause of her detention and said writ. And that she may be restored to her liberty;
or that in the event your Honor 



should think it right and proper she should be held to bail for her appearance to
answer said charge. That you will reduce the amount of said bail so as to make it
within her power to gain the required security.

Dated AD 1887

Turner and Forten attys for petitioner

Territory of Washington County of Lincoln S.S.

Mary E. Teller being duly sworn makes oath and says that she is the person named as
petitioner in the above and foregoing petition, That she has heard said petition read
and knows the contents thereof and that the same is true as she verily believes

Mary E. Teller
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 11th day of July 1887 Wm  Chandler Probate
Judge of Lincoln County WT

Seal




