







#5043

In the District Court of the Third Judicial District of Washington Territory, holding
Terms at Seattle in the County of King.

On the matter of the application of  CA Clayton, Geo Rosenthal, Wm Lewis, John McDonald,
Chas Olson, Chas Kales, Frederick Lunde and E Raschman for a writ of Habeas Corpus}
Petition

To the Honorable Roger S. Greene Judge of the Above named court presiding:-

Your Petitioners C.A. Clayton, Geo Rosenthal, Wm Lewis, John McDonald, Chas Olsen,
Chas Kales, Frederick Lunde, and E Raschman Humbly appearing before the Honorable
court above named makes known to your honor by this petition that they and each of
them the said petitioners are unlawfully and without any just or reasonable cause
and for no cause whatsoever restrained of their liberty by one J. E. Howland who is
the master of the ship "Kate Davenport" which ship now lies in harbor at the Port
of Blakely in the county of Kitsap in and within the jurisdiction of the Honorable
court above named and herein appealed to that the said Howland aided by one L. Van-Doren
constable of King County and  others whose names are unknown to your petitioners are
so unlawfully restraining your petitioners of their liberty against their will and
without the consent of your petitioners or either or any of them.



That your petitioners and each of them are so being unlawfully restrained of their
liberty at the port of Blakely in the county of Kitsap within the Jurisdiction of
the Honorable Court aforesaid they your said petitioners being confined by force by
the said Howland Master on Board of the said ship "Kate Davenport" of which the said
Howland is master of said ship lying in the said port of Blakely within the Jurisdiction
of the court as aforesaid

II.
That the said Capt or Master of the said Ship, the said J. E. Howland gives for his
reason  as cause for so unlawfully detaining the said petitioners was before  the
court complaining, thus, to wit: That your petitioners engaged to work for him under
contract. which allegation your petitioners here deny and say is utterly untrue. That
as far as your petitioners are informed and believes the only cause or reason for
the so unlawful restraint is the said excuse herein now stated.

III.
That the  unlawful restraint of the liberty of your petitioners is illegal.

IV.
That the illegality of the said Restraint consists in this to wit: That your Petitioners
were forcibly placed on board of the said ship "Kate Davenport" of which the said
Howland is Master and is being forcibly restrained of their liberty without their
consent  That now the said Howland totally refuses to allow the petitioners to go
their way but unlawfully restrains the said petioners



against their will and without their consent and without any cause  on the said board
of the said "Kate Davenport" at the port of Blakely in Kitsap County W.T.

Wherefore by reason of all facts herein made known to your Honor your petitioners
humbly pray through their friend who appears on the petitioners behalf that your Honor
will cause to have issued a writ of Habeas Corpus commanding the said J.E. Howland
and the said J.E. Howland as master of the said Ship to produce before your honor
the Bodies of your petitioners and each and all of the said petitioners at such time
and such place as shall seem most expedient to your Honor there that your Honor will
investigate and enquire and compel the said Howland to make known why he so unlawfully
restrains your petitioners from having their liberty. And that if it should appear
to your Honor that the said Howland has no just cause or Legal reason for such illegal
restraint that your honor will render judgement against the said Howland and dismiss
your petitioners without day giving them their liberty to go hence as they will
Alfred Cale
on behalf of petitioners and as their friend

Lewis and Cilman
Junius Roomes
Attorneys appearing for petitioners and for Alfred Cale the friend and who appears
more particularly on behalf of the said Petitioners




