







In the District Court holding terms at Seattle.

In the matter of Ah Kam for a writ of Habeas Corpus for Nan Oy, a Chinese woman, in
the custody of the U.S. Marshal for Washington Territory} 5843

The United States Marshal for Washington Territory having made return to the writ
of Habeas Corpus heretofore issued herein. Now on this 25th day of February AD 1888
came on to be heard the petition in said cause C.K. Jenner Esq. appearing on behalf
of the petitioner and W.H. White Esq. on behalf of the United States as well as on
behalf of said U.S. Marshal. After the  introduction of testimony and on the statement
of the attorney for the petitioner and on the return of said U.S. Marshal the Court
finds as facts in this matter.

That said Nan Oy is a Chinese person and that she came to the United States from the
Province of British Columbia by water on or



about the  day of February AD 1888 and that she had never theretofore been in the
United States, and that she is not of the class of persons mentioned in Section 13
of an Act of Congress approved July 5th 1884, 23 Statutes at Large page 118 and that
said Nan Oy on coming into the United States did not produce the certificate required
by Section 6 of said Act of Congress and that she has no such certificate and that
on coming into the United States she was arrested by said U.S. Marshal, by virtue
of a warrant duly issued by Oliver Wood U. S. Commissioner for said Washington Territory
on a complaint filed with him charging her said Nan Oy with being unlawfully in the
United States and that said U.S. Marshal now has her in his custody by virtue of said
arrest under said warrant.

Now therefore in consideration of the law and the premises it is by the Court ordered
that the petition of said Ah Kam be and the same so denied and it is further ordered



that the U.S. Marshal for Washington Territory forthwith deport said and remove said
Nan Oy. from the United States to British Columbia and she said Nan Oy is hereby remanded
into the custody of said U.S. Marshal to carry this order into execution.

R.A. Jones
Judge




