







In the District Court of the third Judicial District of the Territory of Washington,
in and for the County of King, holding term at the City of Seattle for the Counties
of King and Kitsap.

In the matter of the application of John McLane for a writ of habeas corpus.

To the Honorable Roger S. Green, Judge of the District Court of the third Judicial
District of the Territory of Washington, in and for the County of King, holding term
at the City of Seattle, for the Counties of King and Kitsap.

The Petition of John McLain, respectfully represents:

First, 
That Petitioner is illegally imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained of his
liberty.

Second,
That petitioner is so illegally imprisoned, detained, confined and restrained of his
liberty by James H. Woolery, the marshal, and keeper of the jail of the City of Seattle,
the county of King, and Territory of Washington.

Third,
That Petitioner is so illegally imprisoned, 



detained, confined and restrained of his liberty in the city jail at the said city
of Seattle in the County and Territory aforesaid.

Fourth,
That according to the best of his knowledge and belief, the cause and pretense of
such illegal imprisonment, detention, confinement and restraint of the liberty of
Petitioner is =

The arrest, arraignment, trial, conviction and sentence to pay a fine of ten dollars
and costs of prosecution, and stand committed till the same be paid, under ordinance,
No 32, as amended, entitled "For the punishment of vagrants," approved November 14th
1872, on the 28th and 29th days of February 1884 of Petitioner, for the alleged crime
of vagrancy, by T.H. Cann, a Justice of the Peace for the said City of Seattle, and
said fine and costs not being paid by Petitioner, the issuance of a commitment by
said Justice of the Peace, on the 29th day of February 1884, directed to the said
Marshal, and Keeper of the Jail of said City of Seattle, commanding the said Marshal,
in the name of the United States, forthwith to convey and 



deliver Petitioner to said Keeper, and commanding said Keeper to receive said Petitioner
into his custody in said Jail, and keep Petitioner in said jail at hard labor for
the space of ten days thereafter, unless said fine and costs sooner paid, or until
Petitioner be discharged therefrom by due course of law, under which Petitioner is
so held in custody, under and by virtue of said commitment and under and by virtue
of no other authority.

Fifth,
That the illegality of such imprisonment, detention, and confinement, and restraint
of the liberty of Petitioner consists in this= That said Justice of the Peace of such
city of Seattle had no jurisdiction and proven to take such proceedings, and asses
such fine and enter judgement thereon, and issue such commitment against Petitioner,
charged with and convicted of such offense, for the following reasons to wit=

1 Because, the special act of the Legislature, entitles "An act to incorporate the
city of Seattle," approved December 2nd 1869, subdivision 7, of section 32, (L. Wash.
Ten. 407-455) in giving and granting to the Council of such City of Seattle,



Power and authority, "To provide for the support, restraint and employment of vagrants,"
&amp;c, did not give and grant to said council the power and authority to define such
offense.

2 Because such special act, did not give and grant to such council the power and authority
to prescribe punishment for such offense.

3 Because prior thereto, by the provision of Section 107 of the Special Act of the
Legislature, entitled "An act to amend an act entitled 'An act to incorporate the
City of Seattle, approved December 2, 1869,' approved November 12, 1876," (L. Wash.
Ten. 1875 139-166) Subdivision 7 of Section 32, of said special act, approved December
2, 1869, giving and granting power and authority to the said Council, within the limits
of said City, "To provide for the support restraint and employment of vagrants" &amp;c.
had been repealed, and thereby the ordinance of such city, enacted by virtue and authority
thereof by such council, entitled, "Ordinance No 32, For the punishment of vagrants,"
approved November 14, 1872, by



virtue and authority of which said proceedings against Petitioner were so had, had
been likewise repealed.

4 Because at the time such proceedings were so had against Petitioner for such offense,
such Council of such City of Seattle, had not passed any ordinance or other enactment
relative to vagrants therein, under such act, approved November 12, 1875 or any other
act, amendatory thereof, or supplementary thereto, or contemporaneous thereinto, or
subsequently thereto, giving and granting such Council power and authority, "To provide
for the support, restraint and employment of vagrants," &amp;c or otherwise, and therefore
at said time there existed no ordinance or other enactment of said Council of such
City relative to vagrants therein.

5 Because the power and authority of such council, in passing or enacting such ordinance,
defining and punishing vagrants under which such proceedings where so had against
Petitioner, was exercised without, and not within, the limits of the existing genaral
Law or Statute of such Territory, Sections 1271 to 1285 inclusive of the Code of Washington
(Territory)



being act approved November 12, 1875, defining and prosecuting the restraint of vagrants
by prescribing therefore, different and additional definitions, and different and
additional diferntional and additional restraints and punishments, from the definition
and restraint prescribed by said general law or statute

6 Because such proceedings so had against Petitioner, are in contravention and violation
of the provisions of article V, of the amendments of the Constitution of the United
States, Entitled "Criminal Proceedings," providing that no person shall be "deprived
of life, liberty or property, without due process of law," &amp;c.

7 Because such proceedings so had against Petitioner are in contravention and violation
of the provisions of Article XIV of the amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, providing that no state shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property
without due process of law" &amp;c.

8 Because ^the complaint in such proceedings, charges Petitioner with the comission
of two different crimes, in two different forms, under



and by virtue of such ordinance, upon which such proceedings were so had against petitioner,
in contravention and violation of the General Laws or statutes of which such Territory,
as witnessed in such code thereof, entitled "Criminal Procedure," and entitled "Justice
Prractice Act," and of such special act approved November 12, 1875 Chapter III thereof,
Entitled "Of the Government of the City", see 31, providing that "all civil and criminal
proceedings before such Justice, under and by authority of this act shall be governed
and regulated by the general laws of this Territory relating to Justice of the Peace,
and the practice and jurisdiction," &amp;c.

Therefore your Petitioner prays:

That your Honor grant him the writ of Habeas Corpus.

That such writ be directed to James H. Woolery, said Marshal, and keeper of the Jail
of said city, who so imprisons, detains, confines and restrains of his liberty, Petitioner.

That such writ comand such Marshal, and Keeper of the jail of said city, to have the
body of Petitioner before you at the time and place therein



specified to do and receive what your Honor shall shall order concerning him together
with the time and cause of such imprisonment detention, confinement and restraint
of liberty, and also said writ.

And that petitioner be discharged from said imprisonment, detention, confinement and
restraint, and be absolutely restored to his liberty.

Dated March 15 1884
Kalloch, Murphy and Holcomb
Attorneys for Petitioner
John McLean Petitioner




